extract Pages Functions compiler into a standalone package (#14785)
cloudflare/workers-sdk: .changeset/add-pages-functions-package.md

---

> "@cloudflare/pages-functions": minor

Reviewer: Nit: I wonder if the package name would confuse user for being a generic helpers for pages function, instead of migrating to Workers?

Author: mh.... I see what you mean... 😕 

Do you have anything in mind by any chance?

Author: What would you think of one of these?

- `@cloudflare/pages-functions-compiler`
- `@cloudflare/pages-functions-to-workers-builder`
- `@cloudflare/pages-functions-converter`

or maybe 
- `@cloudflare/pages-compiler`
- `@cloudflare/pages-builder`
- `@cloudflare/pages-converted`
- `@cloudflare/pages-to-workers-builder`

Including `functions` in the name of the package would be more accurate, but it does make the name a bit long, also maybe it's unnecessary and not including it might make the package more future-proof (in case we want to add other pages specific functionalities in there)? 🤔

Reviewer: It's hard to pick one 🙈 We can discuss in the team meeting. I might still prefer `@cloudflare/pages-functions` for simplicity.

Author: oh ok 😅

---

New package for compiling Pages Functions directories into Worker bundles

> Provides both a programmatic API and a CLI (`pages-functions build`) for converting a `functions/` directory into a Cloudflare Worker. The routing logic (filepath-based route discovery, routes module generation, `_routes.json` transformation/consolidation/validation) has been extracted from Wrangler into this package. Wrangler now depends on and re-exports from `@cloudflare/pages-functions`.

Reviewer: Nit: I think the section about extracting the routing logic from wrangler can be removed as it is more an internal implementation detail.

```suggestion
Publish helpers for compiling Pages Functions directories into Workers bundle

Provides both a programmatic API and a CLI (`pages-functions build`) for converting a Cloudflare Pages `functions/` directory into a Cloudflare Workers bundle:
```
